Authority. That word alone makes some cringe uncomfortably due to abuses at seemingly
all levels. In fact, a modern trend of thinking is to question all authority and to respect
none. This attitude has permeated society and is viewed as the norm today. Such a spirit
can be infectious like a disease and can distort our own view of submitting to authority.
What about the expression godly authority? Does that sound more palatable to you and
even more importantly, is there any indication in God's word that shows how Jehovah feels
about loyal submission to his authority? A sobering yet gripping account in the Bible
book of Numbers, Chapter 16, commands our attention. The following drama will present
these events and their significant effects on the nation of Israel. As you watch, try to
determine which character best represents your deepest feelings about authority. How
is godly authority demonstrated among humans? Also try to see how many different aspects of
loyalty you can identify as this struggle between right and wrong unfolds before you. At
the conclusion of this drama, we will discuss these questions and their application for
us today. And now our drama presentation, Respect Jehovah's Authority. Your father must
be really proud of you. Thank you Uncle Cana. You've become a great musician. No, an excellent
musician. You have a future at the tabernacle. You've all taught me so much. I just was grandfather
here to see which I've learned. You know, your grandfather Korra built that heart for me when I
was about your age. It's been in the family a long time now. I know. Fathers told me many times that
grandfather taught all of you how to play and how grandfather was at Moses's side when Jehovah
directed the execution of the idolaters after the Exodus. At that time he was quite a force for
righteousness. But he usually doesn't say much else. Sometimes he gets the saddest look on his face.
Kind of like the one you have now. Well, my son, it was a long story behind this look on my face.
Your father and I don't talk about it much anymore. Back then you were too young to understand what
was going on or why things had to happen the way they did. But you're not a little boy anymore,
are you? So why don't I try to fill in some of the gaps, huh? You see, your grandfather Korra
wasn't assistant to the priests like I am and like you will be one day. In fact, he was the first
cousin of Moses. Now, Jehovah used Moses to deliver us miraculously from slavery to the Egyptians,
opening the Red Sea right before us. That's an experience I'll never forget. Everyone says
what an awesome day that was. I remember when we were little, father always tell us the story of
Jehovah delivering it to the Red Sea, who was one of my favorites and still is. Yes.
But shortly afterwards, many didn't continue to appreciate all that Jehovah had done for us.
After the Exodus, Jehovah spoke to us by means of Moses saying,
if you will strictly obey my voice and will indeed keep my covenant,
then you will certainly become my special property out of all other peoples.
Now, we had no problem in answering unanimously. All that Jehovah spoke and we are willing to do.
But little did we know that real challenges would be awaiting us during our wilderness trek.
Let's go in the back.
Now it's perfect.
Ready.
This is last one.
And then, Jehovah told Moses, stretch your hand out over the sea so that the waters may come back
over the Egyptians. And the waters covered the war chariots and the cavalry men belonging to
pharaoh, and not so much as one of them was left.
Fun. Let's do it again.
So this time, I want to be Moses. Only if you fill the water jug.
Because I did it last time.
I can't believe my ears. You should at least try to understand why your father opposes Moses,
that people are fed up with Moses' authority.
Haven't you noticed all the murmuring and complaining lately?
Don't you see that Moses and his clan exceed their authority over Jehovah's people?
And I don't like the way you speak. You're a Levite like us, our cousin.
You know that Jehovah appointed Moses and Aaron,
and that Moses is actually Jehovah's choice to lead our nation to the Promised Land.
But Elcana, as my uncle Kora, your father has repeatedly stressed the whole assembly
all of them are holy. Why should Moses and Aaron lift themselves up above the congregation of Jehovah?
Hasn't Kora himself worshipped Jehovah for many years?
Even under the hardships of slavery in Egypt.
And he was privileged to witness the miraculous deliverance of our nations through the red sea.
By the hand of Moses, he even lifted up his voice and sang praising Jehovah for having destroyed
the Egyptian pursuer in the very same sea.
Yes, Abiasif, and don't forget, your father proved his loyalty to Jehovah by sharing
in the execution of God's judgment against the calf-worshiping Israelites at Mount Sinai.
I still remember her father, along with the rest,
faster the camp of Israel and killed 3,000 idolaters with a sword in obedience to Jehovah.
But now, exactly my point, Asir, would you consider such a tested and true Levite a rebel,
a person disloyal to Jehovah?
Kora only tries to be balanced, reasonable.
I have to disagree with you, Amzai.
Everybody who knows Moses well will agree that he is by far the meekest of all men.
And we've seen how Moses always asks for Jehovah's direction.
And then just obediently follows through.
So Amzai, whose will is actually carried out?
That of Moses or that of Jehovah?
Supposedly Jehovah's will.
That is the real issue before us.
In the first place, it was Jehovah who appointed Moses
in order to glorify his own holy name before Pharaoh,
to lead us out of slavery into the promised land.
We all know the reservations Moses initially had when Jehovah asked him to speak to Pharaoh.
That's true.
If I remember correctly, Moses replied that he wasn't a fluent speaker,
that he was slow of mouth and slow of tongue.
He even asked Jehovah if someone else could be used to save our people.
It was then that he appointed his brother, Aaron, as a mouth to Moses.
Isn't it clear, then, Amzai, that both Moses and Aaron have not arbitrarily
lifted themselves up above the congregation?
And if anyone objects to their authority,
you and someone who in the past has been faithful in loyal,
whose authority do you think he's actually challenging?
Well, I know I have to answer Jehovah's authority.
However, in my eyes, Moses' leadership is a failure.
Why are we in the promised land yet?
Uncle, uncle, guess who I am.
Why, I don't know.
I'm Moses.
And on the water of the Red Sea,
crashing down on the Egyptians.
What time in time when Jehovah rescued us in the Egyptians
and opened the water of the Red Sea before us?
Yeah.
That certainly was a day to remember.
You and your friends will have to show us this great act of Jehovah one day.
But now it's almost time for the evening meal.
Please go wash yourself up and have your little friends help you
fill one of the water, Jocs.
As you say, Father.
No, no, one of the clean ones at the back of the tent.
Yes, Father.
Would you three claim that Moses and Aaron are always right?
Don't they make mistakes?
Of course they do.
Because obviously they're imperfect men like the rest of us.
Jehovah surely is aware of their mistakes more than any of us.
Like when Moses got married to that Kushite woman.
It's a disgrace that we're led by a man whose wife is not even a daughter of Abraham.
Yes, but support our worships Jehovah the same as we do.
And remember what happened when Mary and Aaron began to speak against Moses
on account of his wife?
Yes, and don't you think it was reasonable for them to ask
if it was just by Moses alone that Jehovah had spoken?
Was it not by them also he had spoken?
Jehovah was listening Amzai, and he immediately made known his view of matters.
God said about Moses, he is being entrusted with all my house.
Mouth to mouth, I speak to him.
Then Jehovah pointedly asked,
why then did you not fear to speak against my servant, against Moses?
And for her rebellion, Miriam was struck with leprosy for seven days.
Remember, we couldn't pull away until she recovered
and was able to come back into the camp.
Aaron had to admit that turning against Jehovah's appointed one
was a sin, a foolish act.
He learned a very important lesson.
I wish our father would learn the same.
Anyway, that was in the past.
There's something about you three I don't understand.
How can you side with Moses against your own father who gave you life?
The law specifically says you should honor your father.
I'd expect you to be loyal and support your father,
at least out of respect for him.
How could you, Amzai?
Make no mistake about it.
This isn't easy for us.
We love our father, but we're not blind.
And it's very painful to see him follow a course of stubborn opposition to Jehovah.
But it's not just a question of taking sides with me or men,
be it father or Moses or Aaron.
We simply want to remain faithful to the one who appointed Moses.
Jehovah, so the whole matter boils down to how can I put it
to loyalty, loyalty to our father and to family,
or loyalty to Jehovah?
It grieves us to see our father being swayed by what appears to be wrong motives.
Wrong motives?
Here's something new.
What do you mean by that, Alcana?
Of course, I can't read my father's heart.
And I in no way want to show disrespect for him.
But lately, he seems to enjoy all the attention that
Nathan, a Byron, and Ann, paid to him.
I wonder if, evidently, he's not content with the place our family has in God's arrangement.
It's not a small thing to be teachers of Jehovah's Law.
And to carry the furniture and utensils of the tabernacle.
Sadly, though, it seems that our father no longer finds satisfaction in serving us
an assistant to Aaron and his priestly sons.
What about Nathan, a Byron and Ann, who are distinguished leaders of the Rubenites,
as well as the 250 other chiefdans, men of fame?
They all seem to agree with Korah.
Again, Amsai, you have to think about their possible motives.
Could it be that since Ruben was the first born son of her forefather Jacob,
some of these descendants of Ruben's may resent Moses exercising authority over them?
And don't forget that our family camps near the Rubenites.
There seems to be considerable inner change of thought between our father
and certain prominent men of Ruben.
I'm very much afraid that things will soon get out of hand.
Why do you have to be so narrow-minded?
Maybe it's time for a change.
Change is good.
I wonder what you're going to do when it comes to a showdown.
As far as I'm concerned, Amsai, I cherish the honor that has been given to our family,
serving Jehovah faithfully according to his arrangement.
I feel the same, cousin.
A dang Jehovah's courtyard is better than a thousand elsewhere.
We have chosen to stand at the threshold in the house of our God,
rather than to move about in the tense of wickedness.
Watch, don't spell it.
And now, Amsai, it's good for you to be here with us.
Won't you please join my brothers and family for the evening meal?
The first part of the meal is ready.
Thank you, Alcana.
We have been here too long.
We know that I make decisions.
Our decision has been wasted.
I know leaders.
Someone courageous.
We need to get somebody.
We need a man of action.
We have been here too long.
Sick of Moses not knowing what to do.
We need to wake.
We need a new leader.
Man of courage.
Someone who knows that I make decisions.
Peace to you, my brothers.
Peace to you, Alcora.
You can just in time.
We were discussing your courage
and how you fearlessly resist Moses
and the number of issues.
This is the kind of leadership we need.
Men like you are not intimidated by Moses and his clan.
It's time to act.
What happened to leadership in our nation?
I don't believe that Moses enjoys the confidence of the people anymore.
Look how often the people have to resort to complaining.
And then when you think of the appointment
of his brother Aaron as high priest,
that makes you sick.
My brothers, you are right.
The next high priest would be half my age.
Moses did not even consider me worthy
to be a head of our own family.
The co-thites.
He appointed Eli Zaytan.
And man younger than me.
Is it just by Moses alone that Jehovah speaks?
No, what about Moses?
He's almost right there.
Moses obviously delays it,
bringing us into the land that God has promised us.
And yet, he says it's because of the people.
Sadly, it seemed that my father and his associates
had decided to question the authority
of the ones whom Jehovah had appointed.
Moses and Aaron.
But a new situation would soon give them
an opportunity to express their feelings openly.
What happened next?
Well, Jehovah directed Moses to send men
to spy out the land of Canaan.
But after 40 days, they returned and reported,
we entered into the land to which you sent us out.
Nevertheless, we're not able to go up against the people
because they are stronger than we are.
And they kept on bringing forth to the sons
of Israel a bad report.
Then all the assembly raised their voice
and continued giving vent to their voice
and weeping all through that night.
And all the sons of Israel began to murmur
against Moses and Aaron.
I'm not staying.
This place makes me sick.
Our wives and our little ones will become plunders.
Why did we die in the land of Egypt?
It's better than to...
Hear me!
Let us appoint a head
and let us return to Egypt!
This route to spy out is a very, very good land.
A land that is flowing with milk and honey.
Only against Jehovah do not rebel.
And you do not you fear the people of the land
for they are bred to us.
My brothers, my brothers,
these men will lead you to your death.
Do not listen to them.
Be of good courage, my brothers.
Do not condemn God as having told you lies.
Trust in Jehovah to help us
and follow those whom he has appointed as leaders,
even Moses and Aaron.
Do not listen to them.
These men deserve to die.
Master them!
Hear this word of Jehovah.
All the while, Jehovah has heard your voice
and he has become indignant.
And he says,
how long will this evil assembly
have this murmuring that they are carrying on against me?
I have heard the murmurings of the sons of Israel
that they are murmuring against me.
As I live is the utterance of Jehovah.
If I shall not duty you just that way,
is you have spoken in my ears.
In this wilderness,
your carcasses will fall.
Yes, all your registered ones,
of all your number,
from 20 years old upward,
you who have murmured against me,
not one among these men
of this evil generation will see the good land
that I swore to give to your fathers.
Except Caleb,
the son of Jaffana,
and Joshua,
the son of none.
As for your little ones of whom you said,
plunder they will become,
and your sons who today do not know good or bad,
these will go in there.
And to them I will give it,
and they will take possession of it.
Whereas the carcasses of you yourselves
will fall in this wilderness.
Jehovah for Esmosis,
that we may be reconciled to him,
that he might permit us to wander no longer
in the wilderness,
but be still cities upon us.
We shall go up and fight,
ages men,
for tomorrow we shall go up against the Canaanites.
Jehovah said to me,
say to them you must not go up and fight,
because I am not in your midst,
that you may not be defeated before your enemies.
Go ahead on your swordsmen.
Do not listen to Moses.
Listen up, order the Canaan.
Listen to Moses.
That you are overstepping the order of Jehovah.
You will not succeed.
Do not go up,
because Jehovah is not in your midst,
that you may not be defeated before your enemies.
We shall fight for the Amalekites,
and the Canaanites are there before you,
and you are certain to fall by the sword.
Because for the reason,
that you turn back from following Jehovah,
Jehovah will not continue with you.
Turn it on!
Jehovah is with us!
To the top of the mountain,
but the Ark of Jehovah's Covenant and Moses didn't move away from the midst of the camp.
The Amalekites and the Canaanites who were dwelling in that mountain
came on down and began striking them,
and went scattering them as far as Horma.
How far my father and the rest
had drawn away from Jehovah.
You see, although they were making great professions of faith,
their murmuring and fault-finding with Jehovah's appointed servants
was bringing them into open opposition.
You were young then,
but remember what agony our family went through?
Some insisted that we had to follow Korra,
after all he was our father.
Our loyalty was on the line.
And so young,
I know his father must be grieving right now.
So this young man grew up to become a fine soldier.
Our defeat in no way should be taken as evidence that Jehovah is supposed to us.
It's because of Moses that we suffer this defeat.
Nathan, how can you say that?
Korra said it's because we've permitted Moses to continue to impose himself
and his own will upon the people.
That's right.
If you listened to Jehovah's express warning through Moses,
you would not have got up against the Canaanites.
You would not have suffered this defeat.
It's to our advantage to be our own master
and to take to ourselves a new leader.
A point, a new leader has gone too far.
We've been fit to lead the people.
Now that we are rejoicing in our deliverance from the Egyptians,
why should we bear the tyranny of Moses over us?
Right.
And allow ourselves to be so deluded by him?
Is this a viewpoint you may share with my father, Korra?
Everyone knows that we live and move in act according to Moses' pleasure.
Moses would have us believe the God foretells what concerns us
only out of kindness to Moses.
I see if we are not all the children of Abraham.
As made Moses alone, the author of all the knowledge that we have
and that we must still learn it from him.
It's a very sad thing we have enacted before this,
but have allowed Moses to seek glory for himself.
Amzai, could I speak with you for a moment, please?
As you say, cousin, what is it now?
Amzai, why do you keep speaking so bitterly against Moses?
It's because I'm no longer deceived by his persuasive words.
It's his clever speech that has allowed him to obtain his authority
under the pretense that he's following God's command.
And now a bias if he's given the priesthood to Aaron.
How can you speak this way, Amzai?
We both have the great privilege of being set apart for...
True a bias if, but why his own brother Aaron?
It only gives cause for suspicion on the part of the older man.
Are there not others among the Levites that are as well qualified as Aaron?
Would you promote Korra to this office?
Indeed a bias if and why not?
Is not Korra equal to Moses himself?
I hate to say it, but it's obvious.
My father is only interested in his own advancement.
Would you sit in judgment of your own father
and older man who's interested?
Amzai, come, please.
Why should we quarrel between ourselves?
Is it not a time to...
It's a time for us to act.
And act quickly before we suffer another such defeat as our valiant man.
Oh my cousin, what's going to happen?
May you have peace, Korra.
Peace to you too, my brothers.
We're growing restless, Korra.
The defeat we have suffered at the hands of the Amalekites
and the Canaanites have cost us to weave before Jehovah.
But in account of Moses, Jehovah will not listen to our voice.
Makes a show of goodness and of compliance with Jehovah's will.
He uses persuasion rather than force.
And by his secret cunning, it has become wickedly powerful.
As he has exalted Aaron, his brother in the same way.
Truly spoken.
Though it is proper for the people to punish such men,
even while they think their wicked designs are kid's seal from us.
They should be punished.
Ah, it's all there is nothing left for them to do.
You son of Levi, hear me now.
Is Moses able to give any just causes to why he has bestowed a priesthood on Aaron and his sons?
To bestow that honor on one of the tribe of Levi.
Am I not also of that tribe?
Though taking upon myself that dignity of this high office,
unless it were urged upon me by the people,
determined to bestow this honor on the tribe of the firstborn.
This summer from the tribe of Rubin would have it justly.
The day thing and the fire in what happened.
We're there, the oldest men of the tribe of Rubin.
Men of great wealth.
Men of fame.
Full assembly are up.
And Jehovah's Day should you lift yourselves up above the congregation of Jehovah.
O Chora, both you and all those with you.
These 250 men of the sons of Israel are chieftains of the assembly.
Some in ones of the meeting men of fame.
But in the morning,
Jehovah will make known who belongs to him and who is holy and who must come near to him
and whomever he may choose, this one will come near to him.
Do this.
Take fireholders for yourselves, you and your entire assembly and put fire in them
and place incense on them before Jehovah tomorrow.
And it must occur that the man whom Jehovah will choose,
he is the holy one.
It is well.
Joshua, here I am, my lord.
Nathan and a biome are not presently with this assembly.
Go and ask them please to come up also that they may hear the word of Jehovah.
As you say, my lord.
Listen, please, you sons of Levi.
Is it such a little thing for you men that the God of Israel has separated you from the
assembly of Israel to present you to himself, to carry on the service of Jehovah's Tabernacle
and to stand before the assembly and to minister to them
and that he should bring you and all your brothers, the sons of Levi, with you near.
So must you men also try to secure the priesthood?
For that reason, you and all your assembly who are gathering together are against Jehovah.
As for Aaron, what is he that you men should murmur against him?
When, Joshua, have Nathan and a biome, the sons of Eliab come up?
No, my lord.
Here's the word of Nathan and a biome.
We're not going to come up.
Is it so little of thing that you've brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey
to put us to death in the wilderness that you should also try to play the prince over us to the limit?
As it is, you've not brought us up into any land that is flowing with milk and honey
that you might give us an inheritance of field and vineyard.
Is it the eyes of those men that you want to bore out?
So they said, we are not going to come up.
Old Jehovah, do not turn to look at their grain offering.
Not one male ass of theirs have I taken away, nor have I harmed one of them.
Cora, you and all your assembly, be present before Jehovah.
You and they and Aaron, tomorrow.
And it must occur that the man whom Jehovah will choose, he is the holy one.
Yes, let Jehovah choose.
Is enough of you, you sons of Eliab.
Hi, very good.
All you saw the fingers, all the different chords.
Oops, let's try that again.
My brother.
Uncle Okina.
By now, the men are assembling before the tent of meeting, before the face of Jehovah.
This is a very sad day for a nation and our tribe, my brother.
What's happening, father?
We're waiting on a judgment from Jehovah, my son.
Now, please go say with your mother, we'll finish your lesson a little later.
Yes, father.
Thank you, my son.
Wait, thank you very much for helping me, my dear.
Do you want to help me make a blanket?
Can I pick the colors?
Of course you can.
Amzai, shim.
Amzai, it pleases my heart greatly to see that you have enjoying Cora.
You didn't present yourself before Jehovah, the tent of meeting.
I wouldn't present myself as a candidate for the priesthood.
Nevertheless, I don't oppose Cora and his assembly for their right to do so.
I don't think you understand how serious this is.
They're awaiting a sign from Jehovah himself.
Moses hasn't revealed to us what it'll be, but I'm afraid our father's
hactor presumptiousness isn't going to go unpunished.
And now, Moses will present himself before the tents of Nathan and Abiram
that they too might hear the word of Jehovah.
I'd also hear what it is, Moses would say to him.
I, from my part, don't deny Nathan and Abiram the right to do what they've done.
But Amzai, they've denied the word of God spoken by Moses.
Does Jehovah speak only by Moses?
Are we also a part of Israel?
How do you know Jehovah doesn't also speak through Cora, Nathan, and Abiram?
They're older men too.
They came with this out of Egypt.
Isn't Moses a man just like us?
Please, Amzai, beware of the rebellious talk of Nathan and Abiram.
It would seem that Jehovah's preparing to answer those questions himself.
You didn't send up with Cora, but how are you going to send when Nathan and Abiram are called to account?
We shall see. We shall see.
Turn aside, please, from before the tents of these wicked men.
Cora, Nathan and Abiram, do not touch anything that belongs to them,
that you may not be swept away in all their sin.
He can't be talking about us.
Uh-huh, and who else do we have here?
The so-called sons of Cora?
Have you also been taken in by Moses' fear-inspiring threats?
You claim to keep the law.
There's not the law, say, honor your father.
Yes, you sons of Cora.
Why are you not with your father now?
And where it's Abiram?
The first three demand exclusive devotion to Jehovah's.
Jehovah himself is still in the midst of Israel.
Separate yourselves while there is time.
Among the tribe of Rubin, you exercise no authority here.
You separate yourselves from our midst.
By this, you will know that Jehovah has sent me to do all these deeds,
that it's not of my own heart.
If it's according to the death of all mankind, that these people will die,
and with the punishment of all mankind,
that punishment will be brought upon them,
then it is not Jehovah that is sent.
But if it's something created, that Jehovah will create,
and the ground has to open its mouth,
and swallow up them, and everything that belongs to them,
and they have to go down alive into sheol,
then you will know for certain that these men
have treated Jehovah disrespectfully.
And the earth went covering them over so that they perished from the midst of the camp.
And fire came out from Jehovah,
and proceeded to consume your grandfather,
and the 250 men offering incense.
These perished in the rebellious talk of Korah.
This was one of the darkest times ever for our family,
and really for the entire nation.
It was something we didn't recover from quickly.
So my son,
that's why your father's face sometimes looks sad
when we talk about your grandfather.
I understand that now more than ever before, Uncle,
but my son, we have to make sure that sadness
doesn't cause us to forget what really happened here.
My father and his companions actually rebelled against Jehovah's authority.
Their envy, pride, and ambition led to rebellion,
and in the end, they brought this honor upon themselves.
My father saw glory, but his glory was short-lived.
I'm glad, though, that my brothers and I took the right side of the issue.
It must have been hard, though.
Yes, it was.
But that helps us to understand how important it is,
that we not allow friendships or family
to take priority over our relationship with Jehovah and our obedience to him.
That's what fathers always told me.
Hmm, yes.
Ultimately, successful direction for us humans comes from Jehovah.
We should trust completely in his choices of appointed ones.
You see, respect for those whom Jehovah has appointed
shows respect for Jehovah's authority.
Thank you for sharing that with me, Uncle.
It really helps you put all the pieces together.
You're welcome, my son.
Now, what do you say we get back to our arrangement?
Let's see.
Where do we stop?
We were at the beginning of the second verse, Uncle.
Ah, yes.
Here we are.
Ready?
Ready.
Go.
A tragic lesson for those involved in the rebellion and a costly one for the nation of Israel.
As you watched these events unfold, with which drama character did you identify?
It is easy to say that we would be just like the sons of Korah rather than to be like their
father are like days in an abiram.
But which drama characters best represent who we are in the deep recesses of our heart?
Jude, verse 11 says,
Too bad for those who have perished in the rebellious talk of Korah.
Yes, the negative talk of Korah had infected others.
Sadly, some in the Christian congregation today have lent an ear to the rebellious and poisonous talk
of those who do not respect Jehovah.
Perhaps swayed by that person's years of dedicated service or by his prominence in the congregation.
But we should remember that Korah 2 had been a long time loyal servant of God.
So to glibly say, I am loyal is not an assurance that we will be obedient and submissive.
It is too bad that some in modern times have perished spiritually because of the influential thinking
of treacherous hearts.
Respecting Jehovah's authority also involves another important factor, loyalty.
How many different aspects of loyalty did you count in the drama?
Two, three, five?
There were six different areas where in Korah and the other rebels failed the test of loyalty.
First, they did not loyally support Godly authority.
So am I?
Whose will is actually carried out?
That of Moses or that of Jehovah?
Supposedly Jehovah's will.
Isn't it clear, then, am I, that both Moses and Aaron have not arbitrarily lifted themselves
up above the congregation?
And if anyone objects to their authority, you and someone who in the past has been faithful and loyal?
Whose authority do you think he's actually challenging?
Well, I know I have to answer Jehovah's authority.
However, in my eyes, Moses' leadership is a failure.
As back then, today, Jehovah appoints imperfect men to take the lead in the congregation.
Of necessity, then, loyalty to Jehovah means to avoid resisting the decisions of elders in the
congregation. We must believe that Jehovah is aware of all issues and circumstances.
Oftentimes, we are not.
What was the second test?
You son of Levi, hear me now.
Is Moses able to give any just causes to why he has bestowed a priesthood on Aaron and his sons?
God has determined to bestow that honor on one of the tribe of Levi.
Am I not also of that tribe?
Though I have not taken upon myself the dignity of this high office,
unless it were urged upon me by the people.
We need to counteract the spiritual viruses of pride, ambition, or jealousy.
What is the antidote to such destructive motives?
Love, because love does not get puffed up.
The next test of loyalty involved the rebel's reaction to the deficiencies of Moses and Aaron.
Would you three claim that Moses and Aaron are always right?
Don't they make mistakes?
Of course they do, because obviously they're imperfect men like the rest of us.
Jehovah surely is aware of their mistakes more than any of us.
Like, when Moses got married to that Kushite woman, it's a disgrace that we're led by a man whose
wife is not even a daughter of Abraham.
When we come face to face with the imperfections of those with responsibility,
how do we react?
In the fourth chapter of Ephesians, gifts in men, yes, in perfect men,
are for the purpose of readjusting us and building us up.
Verse 13 says,
Until we all attain to a full grown man, to the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the
Christ. As a human, Jesus loyally supported Jehovah's arrangement, even though the deficiencies of
those around him were readily apparent.
Fourth, despite the fact that Jehovah had protected and sustained them, the nation of Israel began to
murmur and complain. Let us appoint a head and let us return to Egypt!
Be of good courage, my brother. Do not condemn God as having told you lies?
Trust in Jehovah to help us and follow those whom he has appointed as leaders,
even Moses and Aaron. Do not listen to them. These men deserve to die.
In the congregation today, a complaining spirit is easy to spot in others,
but it can be transparent when we are the source. We need to submerge and drown all
complaining and murmuring. The Apostle Paul urged Christians to keep doing all things free
from murmurings. Unlike the Israelites, we should not lose sight of the fact that the
temporary inconveniences we experience in this system are minor when compared with the rich
blessings of God's new world. What did you identify as the fifth test of loyalty?
Moses and his clan. It's time to act. What happened to leadership in our nation?
I don't believe that Moses enjoys the confidence of the people anymore.
And then when you think of the appointment of his brother Aaron as high priest,
that makes you sick. My brothers, you are right. The next high priest would be half my age.
Moses did not even consider me worthy to be head of our own family, the co-thites.
He appointed Eli Zafan and man younger than me. Because it's just by Moses along that Jehovah's
speak. Remember Cora was upset at the thought of a younger man being given more responsibility
than himself. So although Cora desired more privileges, it was for the wrong reasons.
On the other hand, his sons were content to serve merely as assistance to the priests.
It is a beautiful thing to see loyal ones who have learned to blossom in the soil
where they are planted. The sixth and final lesson learned from the drama can be a difficult test
of loyalty. You're among a tribe of Rubin. You exercise no authority here. You separate yourself
from our midst. The sons of Cora suffered the loss of their father and other close friends
and family members. Today, Christians may suffer painful personal losses too,
but friendships or family ties should never take precedence over our loyalty to God.
It can be difficult to bring the wrongdoing of a friend to light, or to support the elders
as they readjust a family relative. However, Psalm 1825 says, with someone loyal,
Jehovah will act in loyalty. So again, we ask, which drama character did you identify with?
Deep within your person. Throughout our lives, we will have opportunities to evaluate ourselves
on this matter. So the next time things do not go as you expect, analyze what you feel
surfacing from deep inside, a tendency toward murmuring, is pride pushing away good motive?
Are we subtly taking on the character of Cora, Nathan, or a Byron? Instead, may we all identify
with the sons of Cora, like the nation of Israel we are poised at the threshold of God's new world.
Before entering, you may face issues that test your loyalty, even affecting your life and that
of your family. Be determined to stay focused on the bigger issue of God's sovereignty. Yes,
respect Jehovah's authority. In so doing, you have the prospect of becoming perfect sons and
daughters of Jehovah, being showered with his blessings for all eternity.